---
title: Demian
layout: post
published: true
description: "2/10 would not read again."
---

So I finished reading Demian by Herman Hesse.  

I thought it was pretty bad.  

The internet hyped it up so hard as an "amazing coming of age story" and fawned over Hesse's brilliance and relatability.  Shit, I was so prepared to have my mind blown.  I even read it amidst the wilderness while I was camping because I'm so zen.    

Story starts off great.  Sinclair's problems with bullies and his parents were well described and fun to read, but after the initial conflict is resolved, the story degenerates into weird spiritual bs.  I guess the rest of the story can be summed up as: Sinclair takes waaay to long to discover post-conventional morality, becomes telekinetic, falls in love with his friend's mom, and joins the army.  If wanting something really bad suddenly made it happen, I think the world would be a much different place, Sinclair.  Maybe I'm stupid and it's not pseudo-spiritual bs, but based on like science and logic and real life, I don't think it's very plausible.  One thing I also don't understand is how they got money.  He just talked about philosophy 24/7-- how is he supporting himself?  

Part where he talks about war...  
>Those primal feelings, even the wildest of them, weren't directed against the enemy; their bloody results were merely an outward materialization of people's inner life, the split within their souls, which desired to rage and kill, destroy and die, so that they could be reborn.

reminded me of Fight Club though.  

